How to write good
haw tə ɹajt ɡʊd
Michael O'Donoghue
ˈmajkəl ˌoˈdɑnəˌhju

A long time ago, when I was just starting out, I had the good fortune to meet the great Willa Cather. With all the audacity of youth, I asked her what advice she would give the would-be-writer and she replied:
ə lɑŋ tajm əˈɡo , wɛn aj wəz dʒʌst ˈstɑɹtɪŋ awt , aj hæd ðə ɡʊd ˈfɔɹtʃən tə mit ðə ɡɹet ˈwɪlə ˈkæðəɹ . wɪð ɑl ði ɑˈdæsəti əv juθ , aj æskt həɹ wʌt ədˈvajs ʃi wʊd ɡɪv ðə ˈwʊdˌbi ˈɹajtəɹ ənd ʃi ɹəˈplajd :
"My advice to the would-be-writer is that he start slowly, writing short undemanding things, things such as telegrams, flip-books, crank letters, signature scarves, spot quizzes, capsule summaries, fortune cookies and errata. Then, when he feels he's ready, move up to the more challenging items such as mandates, objective correlatives, passion plays, pointless diatribes, minor classics, manifestos, mezzotints, oxymora, exposes, broadsides, and papal bulls.
" maj ədˈvajs tə ðə ˈwʊdˌbi ˈɹajtəɹ ɪz ðət hi stɑɹt ˈsloli , ˈɹajtɪŋ ʃɔɹt ˌʌndəˈmændɪŋ θɪŋz , θɪŋz sʌtʃ æz ˈtɛləˌɡɹæmz , ˈflɪpˌbʊks , kɹæŋk ˈlɛtəɹz , ˈsɪɡnətʃəɹ skɑɹvz , spɑt ˈkwɪzɪz , ˈkæpsəl ˈsʌməɹiz , ˈfɔɹtʃən ˈkʊkiz ənd ɛˈɹætə . ðɛn , wɛn hi filz hiz ˈɹɛdi , muv ʌp tə ðə mɔɹ ˈtʃæləndʒɪŋ ˈajtəmz sʌtʃ æz ˈmænˌdets , əbˈdʒɛktɪv kɔˈɹɛlətəvz , ˈpæʃən plez , ˈpɔjntləs ˈdajəˌtɹajbz , ˈmajnəɹ ˈklæsɪks , ˌmænəˈfɛstoz , ˈmɛzoˌtɪnts , ˌɑksiˈmɔɹə , ˈɛkspoˌzez , ˈbɹɑdˌsajdz ənd ˈpepəl bʊlz .
"And above all, never forget that the pen is mightier than the plow-share. By this I mean that writing, all in all, is a hell of a lot more fun than farming. For one thing, writers seldom, if ever, have to get up at five o'clock in the morning and shovel manure. As far as I'm concerned, that gives them the edge right there."
" ənd əˈbʌv ɑl , ˈnɛvəɹ fəɹˈɡɛt ðət ðə pɛn ɪz ˈmajtiəɹ ðæn ðə ˈplawˌʃɛɹ . baj ðɪs aj min ðæt ˈɹajtɪŋ , ɑl ɪn ɑl , ɪz ə hɛl əv ə lɑt mɔɹ fʌn ðæn ˈfɑɹmɪŋ . fɔɹ wʌn θɪŋ , ˈɹajtəɹz ˈsɛldəm ɪf ɛvəɹ hæv tə ɡɛt ʌp æt fajv əˈklɑk ɪn ðə ˈmɔɹnɪŋ ənd ˈʃʌvəl məˈnjʊɹ . æz fɑɹ æz ajm kənˈsəɹnd , ðæt ɡɪvz ðəm ði ɛdʒ ɹajt ðɛɹ ."
She went on to tell me many things, both wonderful and wise, probing the secrets of her craft, showing how to weave a net of words and capture the fleeting stuff of life. Unfortunately, I've forgotten every bit of it.
ʃi wɛnt ɑn tə tɛl mi ˈmɛni θɪŋz , boθ ˈwʌndəɹfəl ənd wajz , ˈpɹobɪŋ ðə ˈsikɹəts əv həɹ kɹæft , ˈʃoɪŋ haw tə wiv ə nɛt əv wəɹdz ənd ˈkæptʃəɹ ðə ˈflitɪŋ stʌf əv lajf . ənˈfɔɹtʃənətli , ajv fəɹˈɡɑtən ˈɛvɹi bɪt əv ɪt .
I do recall, however, her answer when I asked "If you could only give me one rule to follow, what would it be?" She paused, looked down for a moment and finally said, "Never wear brown shoes with a blue suit."
aj ˈdu ɹiˈkɑl , ˌhawˈɛvəɹ , həɹ ˈænsəɹ wɛn aj æskt " ɪf ju kʊd ˈonli ɡɪv mi wʌn ɹul tə ˈfɑlo , wʌt wʊd ɪt bi ?" ʃi pɑzd , lʊkt dawn fɔɹ ə ˈmomənt , ənd ˈfajnəli sɛd , " ˈnɛvəɹ wɛɹ bɹawn ʃuz wɪθ ə blu sut ."