Phoenicia
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Phoenicia (from the Ancient Greek: Phoiníkē, meaning "purple country") was an ancient Semitic civilization that originated in the Eastern Mediterranean and in the west of the Fertile Crescent. Scholars generally agree that it included the coastal areas of today's Lebanon, northern Israel and southern Syria reaching as far north as Arwad, but there is some dispute as to how far south it went, the furthest suggested area being Ashkelon. Its colonies later reached the Western Mediterranean (most notably Carthage) and even the Atlantic Ocean. The civilization spread across the Mediterranean between 1500 BC and 300 BC.
fɪˈnɪʃə (frʌm ði ˈeɪnʧənt grik: Φοινίκη, ˈminɪŋ "ˈpɜrpəl ˈkʌntri") wʌz ə ˈeɪnʧənt səˈmɪtɪk ˌsɪvəlɪˈzeɪʃən ðæt əˈrɪʤəˌneɪtəd ɪn ði ˈistərn ˌmɛdətəˈreɪniən ænd ɪn ðə wɛst ʌv ðə ˈfɜrtəl ˈkrɛsənt. ˈskɑlərz ˈʤɛnərəli əˈgri ðæt ɪt ɪnˈkludəd ðə ˈkoʊstəl ˈɛriəz ʌv təˈdeɪz ˈlɛbənən, ˈnɔrðərn ˈɪzriəl ænd ˈsʌðərn ˈsɪriə ˈriʧɪŋ æz fɑr nɔrθ æz Arwad, bʌt ðɛr ɪz sʌm dɪˈspjut æz tu haʊ fɑr saʊθ ɪt wɛnt, ðə ˈfɜrθəst səgˈʤɛstəd ˈɛriə ˈbiɪŋ ˈæʃkəlɒn (Ashkelon). ɪts ˈkɑləniz ˈleɪtər riʧt ðə ˈwɛstərn ˌmɛdətəˈreɪniən (moʊst ˈnoʊtəbli ˈkɑrθəʤ) ænd ˈivɪn ði ətˈlæntɪk ˈoʊʃən. ðə ˌsɪvəlɪˈzeɪʃən sprɛd əˈkrɔs ðə ˌmɛdətəˈreɪniən bɪˈtwin 1500 BC ænd 300 BC.
Phoenicia is an ancient Greek term used to refer to the major export of the region, cloth dyed purple from a mollusc, and referred to the major Canaanite port towns; not corresponding precisely to Phoenician culture as a whole as it would have been understood natively. Their civilization was organized in city-states, similar to those of ancient Greece, perhaps the most notable of which were Tyre, Sidon, and Carthage. Each city-state was a politically independent unit, and it is uncertain to what extent the Phoenicians viewed themselves as a single nationality. In terms of archaeology, language, lifestyle, and religion there was little to set the Phoenicians apart as markedly different from other residents of the Levant, such as their close relatives and neighbors, the Israelites.
fɪˈnɪʃə ɪz ən ˈeɪnʧənt grik tɜrm juzd tu rəˈfɜr tu ðə ˈmeɪʤər ˈɛkspɔrt ʌv ðə ˈriʤən, klɔθ daɪd ˈpɜrpəl frʌm ə ˈmɒləsk, ænd rəˈfɜrd tu ðə ˈmeɪʤər ˈkeɪnəˌnaɪt pɔrt taʊnz; nɑt ˌkɔrəˈspɑndɪŋ prɪˈsaɪsli tu fɪˈnɪʃən ˈkʌlʧər æz ə hoʊl æz ɪt wʊd hæv bɪn ˌʌndərˈstʊd ˈneɪtɪvli. ðɛr ˌsɪvəlɪˈzeɪʃən wʌz ˈɔrgəˌnaɪzd ɪn ˈsɪti-steɪts, ˈsɪmələr tu ðoʊz ʌv ˈeɪnʧənt gris, pərˈhæps ðə moʊst ˈnoʊtəbəl ʌv wɪʧ wɜr taɪr, ˈsaɪdən, ænd ˈkɑrθəʤ. iʧ ˈsɪti-steɪt wʌz ə pəˈlɪtɪkəli ˌɪndɪˈpɛndənt ˈjunət, ænd ɪt ɪz ənˈsɜrtən tu wʌt ɪkˈstɛnt ðə fɪˈnɪʃənz vjud ðɛmˈsɛlvz æz ə ˈsɪŋgəl ˌnæʃəˈnæləti. ɪn tɜrmz ʌv ˌɑrkiˈɑləʤi, ˈlæŋgwəʤ, ˈlaɪfˌstaɪl, ænd rɪˈlɪʤən ðɛr wʌz ˈlɪtəl tu sɛt ðə fɪˈnɪʃənz əˈpɑrt æz ˈmɑrkədli ˈdɪfərənt frʌm ˈʌðər ˈrɛzɪdənts ʌv ðə ləˈvænt, sʌʧ æz ðɛr kloʊs ˈrɛlətɪvz ænd ˈneɪbərz, ði ˈɪzrəˌlaɪts.
Around 1050 BC, a Phoenician alphabet was used for the writing of Phoenician. It became one of the most widely used writing systems, spread by Phoenician merchants across the Mediterranean world, where it evolved and was assimilated by many other cultures.
The Phoenician alphabet consists of 22 letters, all consonants. Starting around 1050 BC, this script was used for the writing of Phoenician, a Northern Semitic language. It is believed to be one of the ancestors of modern alphabets. By their maritime trade, the Phoenicians spread the use of the alphabet to Anatolia, North Africa, and Europe, where it was adopted by the Greeks who developed it into an alphabetic script to have distinct letters for vowels as well as consonants.
The name "Phoenician" is by convention given to inscriptions beginning around 1050 BC, because Phoenician, Hebrew, and other Canaanite dialects were largely indistinguishable before that time. The so-called Ahiram epitaph, engraved on the sarcophagus of king Ahiram from about 1000 BC shows essentially a fully developed Phoenician script.
The Phoenicians were among the first state-level societies to make extensive use of alphabets: the family of Canaanite languages, spoken by Israelites, Phoenicians, Amorites, Ammonites, Moabites and Edomites, was the first historically attested group of languages to use an alphabet, derived from the Proto-Canaanite script, to record their writings. The Proto-Canaanite script uses around 30 symbols but was not widely used until the rise of new Semitic kingdoms in the 13th and 12th centuries BC. The Proto-Canaanite script is derived from Egyptian hieroglyphs.
The Phoenician alphabet was one of the first (consonantal) alphabets with a strict and consistent form. It is assumed that it adopted its simplified linear characters from an as-yet unattested early pictorial Semitic alphabet developed some centuries earlier in the southern Levant. It is likely that the precursor to the Phoenician alphabet was of Egyptian origin, since Middle Bronze Age alphabets from the southern Levant resemble Egyptian hieroglyphs or an early alphabetic writing system found at Wadi-el-Hol in central Egypt. In addition to being preceded by proto-Canaanite, the Phoenician alphabet was also preceded by an alphabetic script of Mesopotamian origin called Ugaritic. The development of the Phoenician alphabet from the Proto-Canaanite coincided with the rise of the Iron Age in the 11th century BC.
This alphabet has been termed an abjad — that is, a script that contains no vowels — from the first four letters aleph, beth, gimel, and daleth.
The oldest known representation of the Phoenician alphabet is inscribed on the sarcophagus of King Ahiram of Byblos, dating to the 11th century BC at the latest. Phoenician inscriptions are found in Lebanon, Syria, Israel, Cyprus and other locations, as late as the early centuries of the Christian Era. The Phoenicians are credited with spreading the Phoenician alphabet throughout the Mediterranean world. Phoenician traders disseminated this writing system along Aegean trade routes, to Crete and Greece. The Greeks adopted the majority of these letters but changed some of them to vowels which were significant in their language, giving rise to the first true alphabet.
The Phoenician language is classified in the Canaanite subgroup of Northwest Semitic. Its later descendant in Northwest Africa is termed Punic. In Phoenician colonies around the western Mediterranean, beginning in the 9th century BC, Phoenician evolved into Punic. Punic Phoenician was still spoken in the 5th century AD: St. Augustine, for example, grew up in Northwest Africa and was familiar with the language.
The Phoenician phonetic alphabet was adopted and modified by the Greeks probably in the 8th century BC (around the time of the hippoi depictions). This most likely did not come from a single instance but from a culmination of commercial exchange. This means that before the 8th century, there was a relationship between the Greeks and the Phoenicians. Though there is no evidence to support the suggestion, it is probable that during this period there was also a passing of religious ideas. The legendary Phoenician hero Cadmus is credited with bringing the alphabet to Greece, but it is more plausible that it was brought by Phoenician emigrants to Crete, whence it gradually diffused northwards.