Stephen Leacock
ˈstivən ˈliˌkɑk
(from Frenzied Fiction)
( fɹəm ˈfɹɛnzid ˈfɪkʃən )

My Revelations As A Spy
maj ˌɹɛvəˈleʃənz æz ə spaj
In many people the very name "Spy" excites a shudder of apprehension; we Spies, in fact, get quite used to being shuddered at. None of us Spies mind it at all. Whenever I enter a hotel and register myself as a Spy I am quite accustomed to see a thrill of fear run round the clerks, or clerk, behind the desk.
ɪn ˈmɛni ˈpipəl ðə ˈvɛɹi nem "spaj " əkˈsajts ə ˈʃʌdəɹ əv ˌæpɹəˈhɛnʃən ; wi spajz , ɪn fækt , ɡɛt kwajt just tə ˈbiɪŋ ˈʃʌdəɹd æt . nʌn əv ʌs spajz majnd ət æt ɑl . ˌwɛnˈɛvəɹ aj ˈɛntəɹ ə ˌhoˈtɛl ənd ˈɹɛdʒəstəɹ ˌmajˈsɛlf æz ə spaj aj əm kwajt əˈkʌstəmd tə si ə θɹɪl əv fɪɹ ɹʌn ɹawnd ðə kləɹks , ɔɹ kləɹk , bəˈhajnd ðə dɛsk .
Us Spies or We Spies--for we call ourselves both--are thus a race apart. None know us. All fear us. Where do we live? Nowhere. Where are we? Everywhere. Frequently we don't know ourselves where we are. The secret orders that we receive come from so high up that it is often forbidden to us even to ask where we are. A friend of mine, or at least a Fellow Spy--us Spies have no friends --one of the most brilliant men in the Hungarian Secret Service, once spent a month in New York under the impression that he was in Winnipeg. If this happened to the most brilliant, think of the others.
ʌs spajz , ɔɹ wi spajz --fɔɹ wi kɑl ɑɹˈsɛlvz boθ --ɑɹ ðʌs ə ɹes əˈpɑɹt . nʌn no ʌs . ɑl fɪɹ ʌs . wɛɹ du wi lɪv ? ˈnoˌwɛɹ . wɛɹ ɑɹ wi ? ˈɛvɹiˌwɛɹ . ˈfɹikwəntli wi dont no ɑɹˈsɛlvz wɛɹ wi ɑɹ . ðə ˈsikɹət ˈɔɹdəɹz ðət wi ɹəˈsiv kʌm fɹəm so haj ʌp ðæt ɪt ɪz ˈɑfən fʌɹˈbɪdən tu ʌs ˈivən tə æsk wɛɹ wi ɑɹ . ə fɹɛnd əv majn , ɔɹ æt list ə ˈfɛlo spaj --ʌs spajz hæv no fɹɛndz --wʌn əv ðə most ˈbɹɪljənt mɛn ɪn ðə hʌŋˈɡɛɹiən ˈsikɹət ˈsəɹvəs , wʌns spɛnt ə mʌnθ ɪn ˌnju ˈjɔɹk ˈʌndəɹ ðə əmˈpɹɛʃən ðət hi wəz ən ˈwɪnəˌpɛɡ . ɪf ðɪs ˈhæpənd tə ðə most ˈbɹɪljənt , θɪŋk əv ðə ˈʌðəɹz .

The Sorrows of A Summer Guest
ðə ˈsɔɹoz əv ə ˈsʌməɹ ɡɛst
Let me admit, as I start to write, that the whole thing is my own fault. I should never have come. I knew better. I have known better for years. I have known that it is sheer madness to go and pay visits in other people's houses.
lɛt mi ədˈmɪt , æz aj stɑɹt tə ɹajt , ðət ðə hol θɪŋ ɪz maj fɑlt . aj ʃʊd ˈnɛvəɹ həv kʌm , aj nju ˈbɛtəɹ . aj həv non ˈbɛtəɹ fɔɹ jɪɹz . aj hæv non ðət ɪt əz ʃɪɹ ˈmædnəs tə ɡo ənd pe ˈvɪzəts ɪn ˈʌðəɹ ˈpipəlz ˈhawzəz .
Yet in a moment of insanity I have let myself in for it and here I am. There is no hope, no outlet now till the first of September when my visit is to terminate. Either that or death. I do not greatly care which.
jɛt ɪn ə ˈmomənt əv ɪnˈsænəti aj həv lɛt ˌmajˈsɛlf ˈɪn fəɹ ɪt ənd hɪɹ aj æm . ðɛɹ ɪz no hop , no ˈawtlət naw tɪl ðə fəɹst əv ˌsɛpˈtɛmbəɹ wɛn maj ˈvɪzət ɪz tə ˈtəɹməˌnet . ˈajðəɹ ˈðæt ɔɹ ˈdɛθ . aj du nɑt ˈɡɹetli kɛɹ wɪtʃ .