The Boy who Cried Wolf
ðə bɔɪ hu kraɪd wʊlf 
There was once a poor shepherd boy who used to watch his flocks in the fields next to a dark forest near the foot of a mountain. One hot afternoon, he thought up a good plan to get some company for himself and also have a little fun. Raising his fist in the air, he ran down to the village shouting "Wolf, Wolf." As soon as they heard him, the villagers all rushed from their homes, full of concern for his safety, and two of his cousins even stayed with him for a short while. This gave the boy so much pleasure that a few days later he tried exactly the same trick again, and once more he was successful. However, not long after, a wolf that had just escaped from the zoo was looking for a change from its usual diet of chicken and duck. So, overcoming its fear of being shot, it actually did come out from the forest and began to threaten the sheep. Racing down to the village, the boy of course cried out even louder than before. Unfortunately, as all the villagers were convinced that he was trying to fool them a third time, they told him, "Go away and don’t bother us again." And so the wolf had a feast.
ðɛr wʌz wʌns ə pur ˈʃɛpərd bɔɪ hu juzd tu wɑʧ hɪz flɑks ɪn ðə fildz nɛkst tu ə dɑrk ˈfɔrəst nɪr ðə fʊt ʌv ə ˈmaʊntən. wʌn hɑt ˌæftərˈnun, hi θɔt ʌp ə gʊd plæn tu gɛt sʌm ˈkʌmpəni fɔr hɪmˈsɛlf ænd ˈɔlsoʊ hæv ə ˈlɪtəl fʌn. ˈreɪzɪŋ hɪz fɪst ɪn ði ɛr, hi ræn daʊn tu ðə ˈvɪləʤ ˈʃaʊtɪŋ "wʊlf, wʊlf." æz sun æz ðeɪ hɜrd hɪm, ðə ˈvɪlɪʤərz ɔl rʌʃt frʌm ðɛr hoʊmz, fʊl ʌv kənˈsɜrn fɔr hɪz ˈseɪfti, ænd tu ʌv hɪz ˈkʌzənz ˈivɪn steɪd wɪð hɪm fɔr ə ʃɔrt waɪl. ðɪs geɪv ðə bɔɪ soʊ mʌʧ ˈplɛʒər ðæt ə fju deɪz ˈleɪtər hi traɪd ɪgˈzæktli ðə seɪm trɪk əˈgɛn, ænd wʌns mɔr hi wʌz səkˈsɛsfəl. ˌhaʊˈɛvər, nɑt lɔŋ ˈæftər, ə wʊlf ðæt hæd ʤʌst ɪˈskeɪpt frʌm ðə zu wʌz ˈlʊkɪŋ fɔr ə ʧeɪnʤ frʌm ɪts ˈjuʒəwəl ˈdaɪət ʌv ˈʧɪkən ænd dʌk. soʊ, ˈoʊvərˌkʌmɪŋ ɪts fɪr ʌv ˈbiɪŋ ʃɑt, ɪt ˈækʧuəli dɪd kʌm aʊt frʌm ðə ˈfɔrəst ænd bɪˈgæn tu ˈθrɛtən ðə ʃip. ˈreɪsɪŋ daʊn tu ðə ˈvɪləʤ, ðə bɔɪ ʌv kɔrs kraɪd aʊt ˈivɪn ˈlaʊdər ðæn bɪˈfɔr. ənˈfɔrʧənətli, æz ɔl ðə ˈvɪlɪʤərz wɜr kənˈvɪnst ðæt hi wʌz ˈtraɪɪŋ tu ful ðɛm ə θɜrd taɪm, ðeɪ toʊld hɪm, "goʊ əˈweɪ ænd doʊnt ˈbɑðər ʌs əˈgɛn." ænd soʊ ðə wʊlf hæd ə fist.