Verse for a certain dog
vəɹs fɔɹ ə ˈsəɹtən dɑɡ

Such glorious faith as fills your limpid eyes,
sʌtʃ ˈɡlɔɹjəs ˈfeθ æz ˈfɪlz jɔɹ ˈlɪmpəd ˈajz ,
Dear little friend of mine, I never knew.
dɪɹ ˈlɪtəl ˈfɹɛnd əv ˈmajn , aj ˈnɛvəɹ ˈnu .
All-innocent are you, and yet all-wise.
ɑl ˈɪnəsənt ɑɹ ˈju , ənd ˈjɛt ɑl ˈwajz .
(For Heaven's sake, stop worrying that shoe!)
( fɔɹ ˈhɛvənz ˈsek ,stɑp ˈwəɹiɪŋ θæt ˈʃu !)
You look about, and all you see is fair;
ju ˈlʊk əˈbawt , ənd ˈɑl ju ˈsi ɪz ˈfɛɹ ;
This mighty globe was made for you alone.
ðɪs ˈmajti ˈɡlob wəz ˈmed fəɹ ˈju əˈlon .
Of all the thunderous ages, you're the heir.
əv ˈɑl ðə ˈθʌndɹəs ˈedʒəz , ˈjʌɹ ði ˈɛɹ .
(Get off the pillow with that dirty bone!)
(ɡɛt ˈɑf ðə ˈpɪlo wɪθ ðæt ˈdəɹti ˈbon !)

A skeptic world you face with steady gaze;
ə ˈskɛptək ˈwəɹld ju ˈfes wəθ ˈstɛdi ˈɡez ;
High in young pride you hold your noble head,
ˈhaj ɪn ˈjʌŋ ˈpɹajd ju ˈhold jɔɹ ˈnobəl ˈhɛd ;
Gayly you meet the rush of roaring days.
ˈɡeli ju ˈmit ðə ˈɹʌʃ əv ˈɹɔɹɪŋ ˈdez .
(Must you eat puppy biscuit on the bed?)
( ˈmʌst ju ˈit ˈpʌpi ˈbɪskət ˈɑn ðə ˈbɛd ?)
Lancelike your courage, gleaming swift and strong,
ˈlænsˌlajk jɔɹ ˈkəɹədʒ , ˈɡlimɪŋ ˈswɪft ənd ˈstɹɑŋ ,
Yours the white rapture of a winged soul,
ˈjɔɹz ðə ˈwajt ˈɹæptʃəɹ əv ə ˈwɪŋəd ˈsol ,
Yours is a spirit like a Mayday song.
ˈjɔɹz ɪz ə ˈspɪɹət lajk ə ˈme -ˌde ˈsɑŋ .
(God help you, if you break the goldfish bowl!)
(ɡɑd ˈhɛlp ju ˈɪf ju ˈbɹek ðə ˈɡoldˌfɪʃ ˈbol !)

“Whatever is, is good” - your gracious creed.
“ wʌtˈɛvəɹ ˈɪz ɪz ˈɡʊd ” - jɔɹ ˈɡɹeʃəs ˈkɹid .
You wear your joy of living like a crown.
ju ˈwɛɹ jɔɹ ˈdʒɔj əv ˈlɪvɪŋ ˈlajk ə ˈkɹawn .
Love lights your simplest act, your every deed.
lʌv ˈlajts jɔɹ ˈsɪmpləst ˈækt , jɔɹ ˈɛvɹi ˈdid .
(Drop it, I tell you- put that kitten down!)
(ˈdɹɑp ɪt , aj tɛl ju -- ˈpʊt ðæt ˈkɪtən ˈdawn !)
You are God's kindliest gift of all - a friend.
ju ˈɑɹ ɡɑdz ˈkajndliəst ˈɡɪft əv ˈɑl -- ə ˈfɹɛnd .
Your shining loyalty unflecked by doubt,
jɔɹ ˈʃajnɪŋ ˈlɔjəlti ʌnˈflɛkt baj ˈɛni ˈdawt ,
You ask but leave to follow to the end.
ju ˈæsk bʌt ˈliv tə ˈfɑlo tu ði ˈɛnd .
(Couldn't you wait until I took you out?)
(ˈkʊdənt ju ˈwet ʌnˈtɪl aj ˈtʊk ju ˈawt ?)