What Is and Ain't Grammatical
wʌt ˈɪz ənd ˈent ɡɹəˈmætəkəl
Dave Barry
dev ˈbɛɹi
I cannot overemphasize the importance of good grammar. 
aj kæˈnɑt ˌovəɹˈɛmfəˌsajz ði ɪmˈpɔɹtəns əv ɡʊd ˈɡɹæməɹ .
What a crock. I could easily overemphasize the importance of good grammar. For example, I could say: "Bad gram­mar is the leading cause of slow, painful death in North America" or "Without good grammar, the United States would have lost World War Two."
wʌt ə kɹɑk . aj kʊd ˈizəli ˌovəɹˈɛmfəˌsajz ðə ɪmˈpɔɹtəns əv ɡʊd ˈɡɹæməɹ . fɔɹ əɡˈzæmpəl , aj kʊd se : " bæd ˈɡɹæməɹ ɪz ðə ˈlidɪŋ kɑz əv slo , ˈpenfəl dɛθ ɪn nɔɹθ əˈmɛɹɪkə ," ɔɹ " wɪˈθawt ɡʊd ˈɡɹæməɹ , ðə juˈnajtəd stets wʊd hæv lɑst wəɹld wɔɹ tu ."
The truth is that grammar is not the most important thing in the world. The Super Bowl is the most important thing in the world. But grammar is still important. For example, suppose you are being interviewed for a job as an airplane pilot, and your prospective employer asks you if you have any experience, and you answer: "Well, I ain't never actually flied no actual airplanes or nothing, but I got several pilot-style hats and several friends who I like to talk about airplanes with." 
ðə tɹuθ ɪz ðæt ˈɡɹæməɹ əz nɑt ðə most ɪmˈpɔɹtənt θɪŋ ɪn ðə wəɹld . ðə ˈsupəɹ bol ɪz ðə most ɪmˈpɔɹtənt θɪŋ ɪn ðə wəɹld . bət ˈɡɹæməɹ əz stɪl ɪmˈpɔɹtənt . fɔɹ əɡˈzæmpəl , səˈpoz ju ɑɹ ˈbiɪŋ ˈɪntəɹˌvjud fɔɹ ə dʒɑb æz ən ˈɛɹˌplen ˈpajlət , ənd jɔɹ pɹəˈspɛktəv əmˈplɔjəɹ æsks ju ɪf ju hæv ɛni əksˈpɪɹiəns , ənd ju ˈænsəɹ : " wɛl , aj ent nɛvəɹ ˈækʃli flajd no ˈækʃəl ˈɛɹˌplenz əɹ ˈnʌθɪn , bʌt aj ɡɑt ˈsɛvɹəl ˈpajlət stajl hæts ənd ˈsɛvɹəl fɹɛndz hu aj lajk tə tɑk əˈbawt ˈɛɹˌplenz wɪθ ."
If you answer this way, the prospective employer will immediately realize that you have ended your sentence with a preposition. (What you should have said, of course, is "several friends with who I like to talk about airplanes.") So you will not get the job, because airline pilots have to use good grammar when they get on the intercom and explain to the passengers that, because of high winds, the plane is going to take off several hours late and land in Pierre, South Dakota, instead of Los Angeles. 
ɪf ju ˈænsəɹ ðɪs we , ðə pɹəˈspɛktəv əmˈplɔjəɹ wɪl əˈmidiətli ˈɹiˌlajz ðət ju hæv ˈɛndəd jɔɹ ˈsɛntəns wɪθ ə ˌpɹɛpəˈzɪʃən . (wʌt ju ʃʊd hʌv sɛd , əv kɔɹs , ɪz " sɛvɹəl fɹɛndz wɪθ hu aj lajk tə tɑk əˈbawt ˈɛɹˌplenz .") so ju wəl nɑt ɡɛt ðə dʒɑb , bəˈkʌz ˈɛɹˌplen ˈpajləts hæv tə juz ɡʊd ˈɡɹæməɹ wɛn ðe ɡɛt ɑn ðə ˈɪntəɹˌkɑm ənd əksˈplen tə ðə ˈpæsəndʒəɹz ðət , bəˈkʌz əv haj wɪndz , ðə plen ɪz ɡoɪŋ tə tek ɑf ˈsɛvɹəl ˈawəɹz let ənd lænd ɪn piˈɛɹ , sawθ dəˈkotə , ɪnˈstɛd əv ˌlɑs ˈændʒələs .